<DESC:The Delta Quadrant>

*Smiles and looks around the room*

<SOUND 581a69d3-37ea-3d17-766f-68cacafb8636>
My name is <INSTRUCTOR_NAME> and I will be your instructor for today's class.
This is the  Delta Quadrant class.  
Please hold all questions until the end of the lecture, at which time, I will be glad to answer any that you may have.  
There will be an exam at the conclusion of the lecture.  
You may use your class notes, but please refrain for any talking during the exam.  
If you have any questions at that time, please IM the instructor.  

*Takes a deep breath and proceeds*

The main goal of this class is to familiarize you with the Delta Quadrant.
The Delta Quadrant is in the upper right quarter (between the 12 and 3 o'clock positions) of the Milky Way Galaxy. 
One of the meridian lines passes through the galactic core and the Sol System. 
While the other meridian line is perpendicular at the core.  
The closest point in the Delta Quadrant to Earth is about 30,000 light years away.

The Delta Quadrant is one of four quadrants in the Milky Way Galaxy. 
It is where the starship U.S.S. Voyager spent seven years (2371-2378) before returning to Federation territory. 
They made First Contact with numerous species, including the Undine and the Voth, which are not native to the quadrant. 
In 2410, the Delta Alliance formed by Federation, Klingon and Romulan forces, 
returned to the Delta Quadrant by using Iconian gateways.

Although it was known to be home to the Borg, the Delta Quadrant had been wholly unexplored until 
word was received in 2374 from the lost U.S.S. Voyager. 
Compressed messages from the ship, long presumed a casualty, detailed its accidental arrival there 
and travels homeward among cultures such as the Kazon sects, the Vidiians, 
Talaxians, Ocampa, the Hirogen, Species 8472 — and, of course, the Borg.
The following races and cultures can be found in the Delta Quadrant.  
There are probably more, we just not have met them yet.

There are 18 Kazon sects. Any Kazon without a sect is deemed a Goven, or outcast.
The Kazon-Nistrim sect is ruled by Maje Culluh. The Ogla sect is ruled by Maje Haliz since the death
of Maje Razik. Other sects include the Mostral, Hobii, and Oglamar.
The Maje of the Relora sect is identifiable by a green sash.

Planet: name unspecified. A space-faring Delta Quadrant species known as educators, explorers, 
and above all artists — until the phage hit them two millennia ago. Thousands die each day, 
and organ harvesting is the only way to survive; corpses are preferred, but in an emergency 
they may be taken from a living body. As a consequence, their medical technology is much higher 
advanced than the United Federation of Planets norm, including immunogenicity. 
They are not familiar with holographic imaging, and their power systems may use a dilithium matrix. 
A honatta helps a patron find the appropriate organs. Despite the disease and lack of 
conscience in this area, the culture somehow goes on: Motura is a sculptor. The disease leaves them 
weakened, requiring slave labor to do such tasks as mining.

Planet: Talax. Normally the physiology is totally different from all others on the ship with an
immune system which would reject any organ donors outright, but Vidiian immunogenetical knowledge 
allows an Ocampa lung from Kes to be easily adapted. The respiratory system is directly linked to 
several points along the spinal column. One has been in the Avery III Vidiian mines for six years, 
the last of his 23-member crew alive.

Race moved underground and grew dependent upon the "Caretaker" alien who had accidentally made 
their planet's atmosphere incapable of producing a water cycle some 500 generations ago. 
The average Ocampan life-span is nine-years.
Unaware of the aliens as anything but a benevolent god, their ancient texts record the disaster as "the warming" 
when the benevolent Caretaker opened an underground chasm to allow them to build a city there. 
They have let their telepathic and other abilities atrophy but care until death for those "honored guests" 
rejected and infected by the medical testing their Caretaker completes in his search for a mate. 
In fact, such guests are stared at by the natives for the contact they have had, and believe they are "immune" 
from their fatal disease. Some less-latent outcasts are tolerated and have a farm colony outside the city. 
Some have found fissures to the surface, but are closed up for protection against the intrusive Kazon-Ogla above. 
The mainstream Ocampa hold the ancient stories of cognitive abilities as apocryphal.
Ten months after being drawn to the Delta quadrant, the U.S.S. Voyager found Ocampa on the Array of 
another Nacene entity and the Caretaker's mate, Suspiria. 
The stories of the Nacene proved to be true. Through her guidance, these Ocampa had developed 
telekinetic and telepathic abilities, and had extended their lifespan to over 20 years.

A spacefaring nomadic race of the Delta Quadrant whose society has been completely based upon the ritual 
hunt for a millennium, despite their advanced technological status. 
All other species are viewed as prey, not equals, but only challenging prey are prized and pursued.
Competition among males, hunting singly or in packs as "Alphas" and their subordinate "Betas," 
is for trophies or "relics" to display, including victims' skeletal remains, gutted organs and captured technology and artifacts.
An ancient galaxy-spanning sensor network taken over by the Hirogen, later disabled, 
was used by the U.S.S. Voyager to communicate briefly with the Alpha Quadrant and brought the groups into conflict.
In 2374, a visionary Alpha decided that the U.S.S. Voyager's holodecks would allow his people to continue the hunt
tradition safely while regrouping to preserve their homeless, ever-dispersed culture. 
Despite his assassination, a younger successor agreed to follow through with the plan and use Kathryn Janeway's 
gift of a holo-program's optronic datacore. Unfortunately, the Hirogen misused that technology
and programmed their prey to be overly cunning and adaptive — in order to make their hunts more "challenging" 
— and essentially gave those holograms self-awareness and a desire for liberation. 
Three years after receiving the holographic technology, disaster ensued at several Hirogen training facilities
where the prey killed their hunters and escaped to free others of their kind and find a home to call their own.

The Malon are a Delta Quadrant people who although were warp capable, didn't possess advanced recycling 
technologies unlike many other galactic species. 
This meant all the toxic by-products (specifically theta radiation) of warp reaction 
(estimated at 6 billion iso-tonnes per day) had to be dumped by a vast waste-export industry. 
They often found USS Voyager to be a hindrance to their plans. 
Controller Emck liked to dump in the Void but Voyager stopped him. 
In 2376, the Malon tanker Apsac under the command of controller Marssi was attacked by a Hirogen warship. 
When the tanker was damaged in the attack, Marssi was forced to dump the irradiated material into 
an Iconian Gateway that the Apsac detected. The waste emerged into the Alpha Quadrant, 
near the planet Europa Nova. Marssi and hew crew were later killed by a Hirogen Alpha who boarded the Apsac.
The Supertanker Keta was a Malon ship. Other than shipbuilding and waste dumping, the only exports are smap crop and therhea grain.

A sophisticated lifeform native to a realm of fluidic space a dimension apart from our universe, 
known only by its Borg designation because its self-ascribed name is unknown. 
Species 8472 has an extremely dense genetic structure and an extraordinarily powerful immune system; 
almost anything that penetrates their cells is instantly destroyed, including chemical, biological or technological intruders.

In 2373 the Borg somehow discovered fluidic space and learned that Species 8472 possesses organic spacecraft 
and a biogenically engineered weapons technology that was superior to anything known to the Borg. 
Seeking to assimilate this civilization and its technology, the Borg launched an attack on the fluidic space realm, 
only to be repulsed. Shortly thereafter, Species 8472 launched a retaliatory strike, 
sending hundreds of powerful bioships into the Delta Quadrant with the goal of eliminating all lifeforms from the galaxy, 
destroying entire planets and fleets in Borg-occupied space. 
The 8472 assault was halted when the U.S.S. Voyager collaborated with the Borg to use new nanoprobe technology 
the crew had developed, a weapon against which the species had no effective defense. 

It was in the midst of the 8472 battle that Seven of Nine came aboard Voyager and was later severed from the Hive.
Species 8472 considered humanoid genetics to be impure and felt deeply threatened by the violent tendencies 
of many humanoid cultures. Taking Voyager's alliance with the Borg in 2374 as evidence that Alpha Quadrant 
powers were planning a devastating attack into fluidic space, Species 8472 sought to infiltrate Starfleet 
in order gather detailed intelligence and monitor military installations. 
In preparation for this reconnaissance mission, they constructed a series of "terraspheres" containing elaborate re-creations 
of key Alpha Quadrant locales, including Starfleet Headquarters, in order to train their operatives in humanoid culture, 
values and biology. Some of their fears were allayed in 2375 when Voyager's Captain Janeway conducted negotiations 
with 8472 representatives, the first real talks between the two cultures. Janeway agreed to share her 
nanoprobe weapons technology with them, in exchange for some of their own technology and a promise to drop 
their infiltration plans and return to fluidic space.

This concludes our lecture for today.
 
<LIGHTS_ON>
 
Are there any questions?
*Looks around the room*
There Will Now be a Test
You will need to score 80% or better to pass this exam.  All grades are pass/fail only.
 
Good luck
